[Music]
hello and welcome to Tuesday news day
your number one resource for the entire
week's worth of VR news there is a VR
headset out there right now that has
better specs in the quest a competitive
price and native steam VR support but
you probably haven't heard anything
about it and that's because the whole
story behind it gets a little weird but
we'll get into that after this this
video is brought to you by you I usually
thank all of my patreon supporters at
the end of my videos but I really want
to thank everyone that has supported
this channel whether it's through
watching these videos that I upload
throughout the week joining in my
discord or watching my twitch and of
course contributing through patreon I've
been able to keep this channel raid
shadow legends free for all this time
and I really wanted to say it truly
couldn't be done without all of you I am
adding new perks to my patreon like
exclusive patreon game nights and VR
meetups as well as some small tokens of
appreciation being sent out soon so if
you'd like links to my patreon are below
but of course you just being here right
now commenting on this and liking this
and sharing the VR love is way more than
enough and that's all from today's
sponsor you you make it all possible but
enough with the pesky advertisements
let's just get right into the news
oculus is celebrating their one-year
anniversary of the oculus quest and rift
us and have a number of pretty great
things for the community as well as some
updates on revenue numbers made by
oculus titles first off is the biggest
thing remember last week how I talked
about hand tracking is actually feeling
like a good feature now not just some
gimmick well that's for good reason and
it's no coincidence that the quality of
hand tracking feels vastly improved over
the original demo that I tried out last
year oculus is now moving the hand
tracking feature out of experimental
features and it's now a fully supported
based feature of the oculus quest that
means that starting this month full
games will release on the actual oculus
store that take advantage of that hand
tracking no more need for side quest if
you want to try out some hand tracking
demos one of them that I'm excited about
is waltz of the wizard one of the
best-looking implementations of the
technology starting May 28 third-party
games can be submitted to oculus that
use hand tracking as their sole method
of controller input and that's some
pretty good stuff and by the way since I
know that people will be asking about
hand tracking on the rift desks I
wouldn't hope for it too much I'm
planning on making a state of rift us
and quest video detailing exactly why
this is the case but at least in this
update oculus has said nothing regarding
the rift us and hand tracking and that
probably has to do something with this
oculus announced that more than 100
million dollars worth of content has
been sold on the quest store alone
within the past year and apparently
Facebook is thrilled to share that more
than ten titles have generated over two
million dollars each to celebrate this
on May 21st the oculus tour will have a
massive sale on ton of titles and beat
Sabre is receiving 40 new beat maps for
free if you've been eyeing a few games
maybe some of the ones that I listed in
my most recent video top 10 VR games of
all time this is likely the time to do
it but now on to my main topic and it's
kind of a big one but the story here
gets a little muddy there is a
standalone VR headset out there that was
recently released and exceeds the oculus
quest spec wise in many areas its
competitive in pricing and has native
wireless connection to five port and
steamvr
for PC gaming let me just explain some
of the specs first 4k resolution
displays although that's really just 2k
pry 110° fov halo head strap designed to
deal with the front heavy nature of a
headset like this a snapdragon 830 5 and
6 gigabytes of internal memory versus
the quest for which only 2.75 gigabytes
are actually used for applications
anyways of course it's a six degree of
freedom headset just like the quest but
the cool part is that right out of the
box it has a 5 gigahertz Wi-Fi wireless
tether feature that supposedly provides
the smoothest wireless gameplay possible
on a 5 gigahertz connection I mean
comparing the two this thing is looking
to be a pretty decent deal plus has
expandable memory via SD card so you're
not just stuck with the 64 or 128
gigabyte models on the quest this is
what is called the I don't know how to
pronounce it so I'll just say Qi y u2
Pro
it launched this month for only $500
which is not that bad it's pretty much
the price of a 128 gigabyte quest that
does almost the same thing without the
standalone oculus exclusives of course
but there is a problem though a catch
it's only released in China at the
moment I have reached out to China
president of HTC vive and the company
about a North American or European
release and I still haven't gotten a
response but wait why would I contact
the China president of HTC vive
what does HTC have to do with anything
here well this is a bit of a rabbit hole
VR is actually pretty massive in China
believe it or not taking up about 30% or
more of the entire VR market globally
and while it may seem and feel like HTC
and their VR endeavors are in trouble
here in the Western world HTC has a
grasp on the market in Asia this all
comes together with key U and HTC with a
partnership that HTC has with various
hardware manufacturers called the vive
wave basically HTC provides Hardware
help and software development kits to
various companies and they make the
headsets using already proven technology
this is one such venture although I
can't lie looking at the specs this does
seem like a rebranded HTC vive focus
plus I mean really it does same
controllers processor memory refresh
rate but there's a big difference
the focus plus outperforms the quest in
many ways and actually beat it to market
in terms of being a standalone headset
that plays mobile VR games and can
connect to a PC wirelessly but even
though it was first it launched for
eight to nine hundred dollars far too
expensive to be viable as a consumer
product
this however is boasting practically the
exact same specs with updated software
and is about half the price and it poses
itself as a viable option to compete
with the quest which I'm sure you can
tell there's literally no competition
for the quest at the moment in the
standalone market so will this come to
the regions that can actually watch this
video on YouTube legally likely and even
if it doesn't we can expect one that is
similar to come soon especially with the
advent of snapdragons XR 2 chips China
will likely end up leading the VR market
in terms of 5g technology and
completely wireless dental and headsets
very soon here I mean it's literally the
mission statement of this company quote
utilizing its advantages in 5g and AI
technology IQ I why I will continue to
invest and lead the trend of VR as an
entertainment experience end quote
it's just a matter of time when these
companies and technology will begin
arriving for us in na or EU because when
they do your smartest choice for your
next VR headset might not be an oculus
or valve option but instead whatever
Chinese manufacturer comes here first
and with the best product and price
competition is about to get hot and now
it's time for me I'm not sure if you
guys have seen this clip of a guy
probably trying out VR for the first
time and using an actual plank to do
Rich's plank experience but let me just
press play yikes it's just about as bad
as the time I broke a monitor when
celebrating the end of a 24 hour stream
and crashed into my VR setup VR can be
dangerous and be safe out there
and now back to the news there happens
to be more giant updates for the quests
in the form of the oculus link cable
when the link cable was first introduced
oculus put strict guidelines and
restrictions on what cables you'd be
allowed to use to make your quest
function as a PC VR headset this was
done for obvious reasons you don't want
people hopping into PC VR and having a
bad experience because their cable
wasn't good enough and they'd end up
just writing off VR as being bad well
those restrictions have been almost
entirely lifted now you can now use any
USB C cable to play your PC VR games on
the quest even if it didn't make USB 3.0
standards that were required before
while this definitely sounds awesome
when it affects the quality of gameplay
between using USB 2.0 versus USB 3.0
well in my testing and many others
absolutely not
at least not in any perceivable way this
is pretty incredible considering you can
actually use the cable that comes in the
box with the quest to charge it if you
wanted to you as a link cable all of
this is pretty awesome news as it just
makes things easier on everyone involved
I will mention though that USB 3.0 is
still recommended by oculus and I
haven't
tested every scenario with oculus link
and a USB to cable but during the time
that I did test it did seem stable and
was just as clear as using my 3.0 cable
speaking of the quest and its
availability google has been taking down
fraudulent listings of VR headsets
particularly for the oculus quest look I
know you want your VR headset badly and
you've been saving up money for it and
most the time it's just out of stock
even if you have the money but whatever
you do don't be like these guys because
this turned out to be quite the sad
story a 15 year old girl saved up her
hard-earned money and went to go buy a
quest and shelled out 329 pounds turns
out that it was on a fake listing losing
the money and receiving no headset I
honestly wouldn't even bother with
scalpers on eBay if you want to buy a VR
headset buy it from the official
retailer like the oculus website or
Amazon or Best Buy or if you're buying
an index buy it from the steam store
only VR headsets are a hot target for
scams like this right now and while
Google did say they took down an
approximate 2.7 billion ads in 2019
regarding tech objects their work
doesn't mean that you're safe from
everything make sure you're watching out
for those scammy ads Apple has confirmed
that they just purchased a company
specializing in VR called
next VR their specific specialty is
recording live events in virtual reality
the company announced that they are
working with new partners then shortly
completely seized all operations and
it's now confirmed that next VR has been
absorbed entirely into Apple now in case
you think that this is something small
it's not just some studio that records
live events this company has raised more
than 115 million dollars over the past
decade and has become one of the best at
what they do we all know Apple is
certainly pushing for their own
augmented and virtual reality devices
and this is just one more cog in the
machine that will eventually become the
XR platform that Apple wishes to create
likely setting up a system for devices
to stream live events in virtual reality
like for example football matches or TV
shows which next VR has experience with
both previously partnering with NFL
NASCAR and CNN
I am definitely excited to see where
this leads though we don't really have
any option if you want this sort of
entertainment besides oculus
but even that isn't exactly cutting edge
or something that I really enjoy daily
this seems like something that would be
appealing to a mass audience looking to
adopt VR for more than just games and if
Apple is the one that does that best or
first then shoot let him now let's get
on to some gaming news one of my
favorite rhythm games audio trip has
just released for the oculus quest I've
been a longtime fan in this game for PC
VR and it's one that I've enjoyed
immensely along with the quest version
launching on the oculus tour there are
some really interesting updates coming
to audio trip that set it apart from the
typical VR rhythm game one of them being
full-body tracking support audio trip
caters heavily to being a dancing game
first having been choreographed by
actual distinguished dancers while
mapping the songs but with typical VR
there's always something missing and
that's of course the lower body now you
can create custom full-body tracking
supported maps which i think is pretty
cool and is definitely unique
today on stream I will be playing some
of the games as well as giving away a
few keys so if you want a chance at your
own free copy of audio trip hop on over
to check it out and we can chat VR while
you see what the games all about but now
it's time for question of the week from
sick do you think that we will see in
our lifetime something similar to the
contact lenses in black mare and if we
could what would be the first thing
you'd want to try out in there so yeah I
do think that we'll see contact lens
technology and display technology meet
in the middle and we're going to see
some pretty incredible technology come
out of it already today there are
augmented reality lenses that have
displays on them and you could wear them
I do think though that this technology
has it's obvious limits to come to mind
immediately size factor and the power
factor we simply don't have the display
technology and it's likely impossible to
make contacts that have high resolution
fast responses blaze that would provide
an experience like in black mirror and
power the higher resolution that
displays and the more processing power
that would be needed to push info to
that display I don't know about you but
large batteries and wireless antennas on
my eyeballs
kind of make me feel a little squeamish
what I think is far more likely our
computer brain interfaces like we see in
other black bear episodes like striking
vipers
of course and what's the first thing
that I would do if I had something
immersive like that I mean I think you
know what most people would do but me no
no I probably just sit in front of a
mirror like we do in VR chat a black
mirror that is and that was question of
the week make sure to leave your own
question of the week below in the
comments and I may just answer yours
next if it's good enough and also don't
forget to stop by my Twitter stream
today we will be playing audio trip and
talking VR and of course there will be a
key giveaway for quite a few audio trip
keys so stop on by for a chance of
course thank you to all of my patreon
supporters especially my omegas like Zim
fair evil shadow and Benji I couldn't be
doing any of this without you don't
forget to like this video if you loved
it subscribe if you want more of this
and hit that freaking bell if you just
can't live without it much love thrill
out
[Music]